##Post IBM assessment test on Hackerrank

I recently took an automated assessment test on Hackerrank for an entry level position as a Data Scientist. I continuously made it through screening steps at IBM, but they all were automated and at every step they intoned "this assessment will be added to your apllication and all will be considered as a whole for your continued consideration in this role." Saying to me just becuase we are having you do this doesn't mean you are 'making it to the next step' more like "a human still has not looked at your application but we want you to take more tests with quantitative results possibly negating your application so that a human does not have to look at your application."

That's fine, any feedback or insight into what a company is looking for in a data scientist is helpful for me as I enter my third week of active job hunting, automated or not. Its been a constant learning experience so far. I took a similar assessment for P&G that I felt I did poorly on and sure enough I heard back from them saying you didn't cut it for the position you applied for. I went into that assessment not knowing what to expect and it was a challenging fast paced logic, recall, and basic math test. Afterwards, I googled 'P&G assessment' and was met with pay walled guides on 'how to ace the P&G assessment.' I had no interest in utilizing these services but it did clue me in that others who were taking the same assessment had access to study materials. On Reddit, I found people discussing it and giving tips like using dry erase marker or post-it notes to mark dots on the recall test. Something else I didn't do, but understood others who took it might have. Beyond that, the discussion also said that the assessment had a very high cutoff, meaning mediocre placement likely doomed me.

This may come off as whining but really its disappointment in myself. I should have done my due dilligence before hand to prepare for the assessment with resources that were readily available. Detractors may say oh, well people who did well on that assessment who used those tricks 'cheated' but they didn't they were the most resourceful. So while on the surface the P&G assessment was testing 'intelligence' or 'aptitude' and there may have been brillant people who did fine with no prior knowledge, the test really tested resourcefulness. So P&G ends up with a large group of resuorceful employees with sprinklings of brilliance. Not too bad!

Given that, I took more time checking what the IBM assessment asked of me and having been exposed to P&G was more ready for the type of tests that would appear. Quick Math, Quick logic. I felt I did much better and I was asked to take a test on Hackerrank. Again I did some premptive snopping into what the test might be asking and I got my answer. SQL querys and data prediction.

I felt confident in both those subjects, but my failure in this instance was 2 fold pride and again through investigation. I did no prepatory SQL practice, even though it had been months since I'd last run a query. The question that was asked was relatively complex but I knew I had literally done what the question was asking in my NLP project, however I spent more time than I needed to by shaking the cobwebs off.

That left me with about 2:15 to do the second question which had to do with predicting temperatures given a certain amount of previous temperatures. This is where I had the other issue. This was my first time working with hackerrank. I spent a lot of time fighting the UI. I also was unsure if I was able to pull in external libraries to do the problem. Was I allowed to pull in numpy, pandas, ,sklearn, Tensorflow? Was I allowed to pull in visualization like matplot?

In the end, I tried to do it all 'by hand' typing in a line regression and cosine function with no visualization. Afterwards, I spent more time investigating what hackerrank was. A service that gives you practice problems for coding. I could have taken a practice problem and done all these tests before taking the actual test. But I guess I wouldn't have known what questions to ask without being put in the situation.

So, I have 3 conclusions. practice more SQL. play around in hackerrank (and after investigation leetcode as well) to get familar with there UI and what I can and can't do. And do exactly what I want to do with this temperature test, given all the time in the world. I've pulled a large set of hourly historical temperatures. I'll be 'acing' this IBM hackerrank test, my own way on my own time.

Since hackerrank and IBM would not be happy with me posting this solution for someone to find, this folder and therefore this explanation will be locked for no one to see except possibly one on one for some reason.